CLIENT FIXES AND TWEAKS

Turtle WoW is a mod on the 1.12 version of the game from late 2006,
and as with any old game, tech problems arise. Some issues have been
fixed in later versions of WoW, while we are stuck with this version.
These mods intend to fix issues, and enhance your experience of
playing on Turtle WoW.

All entries listed here are compatible with each other, and should
also be compatible with other Addons and Mods.

[embedded content]

VANILLAFIXES[]

Old WoW suffers from stuttering and lag problems, and this mod solves
these. VanillaFixes also supplies DXVK, a technology that allows your
modern graphics card to use Vulkan to render graphics, instead of the
old DirectX 9 tech.

	* Download the release zip from
https://github.com/hannesmann/vanillafixes/releases 

	* For Windows users, follow the directions on the release page on
whether you should get the version with DXVK or the one without.
 	* For Linux and Steam Deck users, get the non DXVK version, and
instead use Lutris or Steam or another solution which will handle
automatically installing and updating DXVK system-wide for you.

 	* Extract the files from this zip, and place all of them into your
Turtle WoW Folder, where your WoW.exe is at.
 	* From now on, make sure you launch the game by running
VanillaFixes.exe. VF will need to handle the job of launching WoW.exe
for you.

You should be able to tell VF and DXVK are working from a strong
performance increase with noticeably less stuttering and lag spikes.

To enable borderless windowed mode while using DXVK, you must open
dxvk.conf (extracted to your Turtle WoW Folder) in notepad, find the
line "# d3d9.enableDialogMode = True", and uncomment it by removing
the "#".

NAMPOWER[]

The 1.12 client has a fatal flaw for anyone whose class uses a
castbar: A player is not allowed to cast a second spell until after
the client receives word of the completion of the previous spell. This
means that in addition to the cast time, you have to wait for the time
it takes a message to arrive from the server. In a common worst case
scenario, most U.S. based players that connect to E.U. based realms
like Turtle results in a ~10-20% drop in effective DPS. Nampower hacks
the client to fix this.

Download Nampower from https://github.com/namreeb/nampower and extract
the zip into your TurtleWoW folder. If you already use VanillaFixes,
you're all done as VF will load the nampower.dll that you just
installed. If you do not use VF, then you must use loader.exe to start
wow from now on so that Nampower can be loaded.

Start casting spells, use slam, aimed shot, etc. You should notice the
difference.

If you are interested in trying a nampower with additional features
you can check out https://github.com/pepopo978/nampower. There may be
bugs and incompatibilities with some addons, and queuing can interfere
with some mouseover macros. I would not recommend it for hunters using
the Quiver addon as that conflicts.

If you do try Pepo nampower, consider installing the
https://github.com/pepopo978/nampowersettings addon to let you easily
configure Nampower's settings. What these settings do can be found in
Nampower's readme or in the addon menu tooltips in game.

SUPERWOW[]

SuperWoW is another DLL injection mod that enhances the 1.12
clientside development space to backport some features seen in later
versions of WoW, as well as in the Classic re-release.

The full list of features are found here, with some features working
right away, while other changes are intended more for addon developers
to enhance their addons. Addons that make use of SuperWoW's changes
are listed here.

To install, follow the directions here. Also, read here if you already
use VanillaFixes or Vanilla-Tweaks.

Be advised that unlike the other mods on this page, SuperWoW's code is
closed source and so cannot be reviewed by peers.

CLASSIC-SNOWFALL[]

When you keybind an ability and press it, on new WoW clients the
ability will activate the moment you press down. However, on Turtle's
2006 client, abilities only activate once you lift your finger off the
keypress. Coupled with latency, this adds to a feeling of
unresponsiveness.

If you use pfUI's actionbars, simply enable the option "Actionbar ->
General -> Trigger Actions On Key Down".

For all other non-pfUI users, instead download the "ClassicSnowFall"
addon as listed on Addons

IMPULSEBOOSTER[]

The speed at which the game is able to load your addons in old WoW
clients is directly tied to the game's refresh rate, which needlessly
slows down login load times especially when you have many addons.
ImpulseBooster aims to fix this.

Download the "Impulse-Booster" addon as per Addons

Once installed, you should notice generally faster load times on
stronger PCs that weren't already bottle-necked on the CPU.

Beware! This may cause bugs with the UI causing elements to be whited
out. See the bug report here.

AUTOLOGIN[]

Those who play Blizzard's official Retail and Classic will know that
the launcher is nice in that it lets you automatically log into the
game client. Private servers don't exactly have this functionality,
but there are tools to help automate logging in for a more seamless
experience.

WARNING! These solutions store your credentials in plain text readable
by any program on your computer... so if a virus/someone hacks your
computer, it's possible for your wow password to be stolen! By
revealing the spoiler below you acknowledge you are assuming all risk
and liability by using these programs.

TURTLE AUTOLOGIN[]

This is recommended for most users, who only have one or just a few
accounts. This UI mod adjusts the main login screen and expands the
"Remember username" feature to remember everything instead. IMPORTANT:
This mod saves your usernames and passwords in your
TurtleWoW/WTF/Config.wtf file, so remember this before sharing this
file!

Download from the patch-y.mpq file from
https://github.com/Lexiebean/Turtle-WoW-Improved-2FA/raw/main/Merged/Patch-Y.mpq
and place it into your <TurtleWoW/Data/ folder. Launch the game, and
you should see on the top right that your accounts are being stored.
You can log in and out to test this, and even set if an account should
only ever log into a specific character.

(EXTERNAL) AUTOLOGIN[]

If you have too many accounts that you have ran into the ~220
character limit of Turtle AutoLogin, you might be interested in using
this alternative external tool instead.

Download the tool at
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hannesmann/AutoLogin/master/bin/AutoLogin.exe
and place into your TurtleWoW folder. Create a desktop shortcut that
runs this AutoLogin.exe. Edit this shortcut's Target field to add the
required arguments to the program: It needs to know whtether to load
VanillaFixes.exe, loader.exe, or just WoW.exe (depending on if you use
the above mods or not), then it needs your username, then the
password, and finally the delay in miliseconds of how long to wait
before it enters the keypresses.

Once done, the Start In field should look something like D:/TurtleWoW/
while the Target field looks something like
"D:/TurtleWoW/AutoLogin.exe" VanillaFixes.exe MyUser MyPass 1000. This
shortcut should now seamlessly launch the game with your other mods,
and your credentials will be typed in ready for you to hit enter and
start playing.

If you are technically experienced, you can devise a batch or shell
script to manage all of your accounts in a single script.

VANILLAMULTIMONITORFIX[]

The 1.12 client does not cooperate well with multi-monitor setups,
especially those, whose resolution doesn't match precisely. If that
happens, there is a good chance the game won't properly recognize the
supported resolutions and your game will end up looking stretched. By
using this tweak, you don't have to resort to doing inconvenient hacks
such as restarting the computer with a monitor turned off before
launching the game, or disconnecting the monitor entirely first.

This tweak is intended to be used as another DLL injection along with
VanillaFixes.

You can find the repository, including the installation instructions
at https://github.com/Mates1500/VanillaMultiMonitorFix.

INTERACT[]

Interact is a mod that allows you to bind a key which you can then use
to interact with the world around you. Using the key you will be able
to pick herbs, mine veins, loot enemies and much more without the need
to use the mouse to target the object.

SEE ALSO[]

